docs: misc content & guide updates (#2359)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/start/data-pipelines.md

Versioning large data files and directories for data science is great, but not
enough. How is data filtered, transformed, or used to train ML models? DVC

> introduces a mechanism to capture <abbr>data pipelines</abbr> — a series of data

Author: I'd insert a tooltip at least every first use even when defined in-situ (identical to a `\glossary` LaTeX entry).

> introduces a mechanism to capture <abbr>data pipelines</abbr> — a series of data

Reviewer: Per https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/2359#discussion_r613348919:
```suggestion
introduces a mechanism to capture <abbr>data pipelines</abbr> — series of data
```
Committing...

> introduces a mechanism to capture <abbr>data pipelines</abbr> — a series of data

Reviewer: > I'd insert a tooltip at least every first use even when defined in-situ

Why? 🙂 

We def need a better tootlip placement, probably automated. But that's a better discussion. I think there's an issue somewhere, care to look for it? Or start one if not!

> introduces a mechanism to capture <abbr>data pipelines</abbr> — a series of data

Author: reverted

> processes which produce a final result.

Reviewer: Per https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/2359#discussion_r613348919
```suggestion
processes that produce a final result.
```

> processes which produce a final result.

Reviewer: Sorry, it just reads strange to me ("that produce a final result" was prob. meant as a restrictive clause) but maybe I have a bias. Let's ask someone else to check some of the "that" -> "which" changes in this PR...

Cc @dberenbaum @jendefig could one of you maybe take a quick look and opine on "that" vs "which" specifically? Thanks

Reviewer 2: Thanks @casperdcl and @jorgeorpinel!

In this particular case, I agree that it seems like a restrictive clause, in which case "that" is appropriate. I'm also confused by the change from "series" to "a series" since it seems that "data pipelines" refers to more than one series (maybe the end of the sentence should be changed from "a final result" to "final results" so that it's also plural 🤔 ).

I haven't looked through the whole PR, but IMO we should lean towards leaving docs as is unless there's a clear justification provided for why to make the change. It's unrealistic to expect an explanation for every typo, so hopefully we can use judgment and include explanation whenever we think it's not immediately obvious why the change is being suggested.

Reviewer: Thanks @dberenbaum 

> haven't looked through the whole PR

Yeah no need 🙂 we'll figure it out. Feel free to unsubscribe, sorry for the millions of notifications you prob. got after my initial mention.

Author: The paragraph at the start of the "Pipeline stages" section is worded much better (less ambiguous). Perhaps:

```suggestion
introduces a mechanism to capture <abbr>data pipelines</abbr> — series of data
processes, each producing one or more results.
```

Reviewer: > each producing one or more results

I like that there's no "that" or "which" 😆 but it's not clear why "each" as it's not a finite set but more the concept of pipelines we're talking about. I rolled this one back for now.

## Pipeline stages

Use `dvc run` to create <abbr>stages</abbr>. These represent processes (source
code tracked with Git) which form the steps of a <abbr>pipeline</abbr>. Stages
also connect code to its corresponding data <abbr>input</abbr> and

> <abbr>output</abbr>. Let's transform a Python script into a

Author: removed

## Pipeline stages

Use `dvc run` to create _stages_. These represent processes (source code tracked

> with Git) which form the steps of a _pipeline_. Stages also connect code to its
> corresponding data _input_ and _output_. Let's transform a Python script into a

Reviewer: 💅 Could be "theirs" (stages) or "its" (code). What about "the"
```suggestion
with Git) which form the steps of a _pipeline_. Stages also connect code to the
corresponding data _input_ and _output_. Let's transform a Python script into a
```

Author: I believe its code, not stages, so "its."

- `-n prepare` specifies a name for the stage. If you open the `dvc.yaml` file
  you will see a section named `prepare`.

- `-p prepare.seed,prepare.split` defines special types of dependencies —
  [parameters](/doc/command-reference/params). We'll get to them later in the

>   [metrics, parameters, and plots](/doc/start/metrics-parameters-plots) page,

Author: already done

- `-o data/prepared` specifies an output directory for this script, which writes
  two files in it. This is how the <abbr>workspace</abbr> should look like now:

>   ```diff

Author: Hmm there's a bit further up in this file which uses `diff` and I changed this for consistency. Should they both be `git`? Incidentally neither get the indentation correct (bug).

>   ```diff

Reviewer: > there's a bit further up in this file

Do you mean line 177? Yes, should be `git` too! Looks like you already fixed that. Yeah there's some indentation bug 😢 (I think there's an issue about that).

>   ```diff

Author: Hmm there are 4 other instances of `diff` in `content/docs/*/*.md`. Would all need to be changed?

>   ```diff

Author: See 08066353

>   ```diff

Reviewer: Yes, thanks.

By using `dvc run` multiple times, and specifying <abbr>outputs</abbr> of a
stage as <abbr>dependencies</abbr> of another one, we can describe a sequence of

> commands which gets to a desired result. This is what we call a <abbr>data

Author: "a sequence of X which gets to Y" singular

> commands which gets to a desired result. This is what we call a <abbr>data

Reviewer: I see, works indeed. But it should be one of "sequence of commands that get" or "sequence of commands, I think.

> commands which gets to a desired result. This is what we call a <abbr>data

Reviewer: Err: "sequence of commands, which gets"

> commands which gets to a desired result. This is what we call a <abbr>data

Author: "sequence of commands that get" means each command gets (wrong) while "sequence of commands that gets" means the sequence gets (correct).

The original & new phrasing are both fine with using "gets."

This was just a change from "that" to "which" :)

> pipeline</abbr> or

Reviewer: Same problem with tooltippin' this: unnecessary (it's already defined in the same p) and a bit noisy:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1477535/114668110-f5b98a80-9cc5-11eb-9637-f71974d44e38.png)

Existing tooltips were strategically placed.

<details>

> ### ⚙️ Expand to add more stages ☰

Reviewer: Idk actually... It already has an icon. + not v clear why 3 lines apply to adding stages (stacking?)

Reviewer: BTW this applies to all the previous similar changes 😅 Should we keep either ⚙️ OR some other emoji but just one per expanding title?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1477535/114668283-2ac5dd00-9cc6-11eb-8168-71819fd110f9.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1477535/114668311-34e7db80-9cc6-11eb-9f58-ce82942ccd58.png)

Author: idk - felt bad about removing the :bomb: emoji so thought the article was begging for more. Personally I like consistency so

1. must continue using :gear: and :bulb: using current conventions
2. maybe also use other emojis (but not as replacements)

I don't like the extra emojis at all but in terms of keeping the tone light & engaging suppose they're ok. Would make me v. happy to remove all of them.

Reviewer: If those are the only options I vote for 1. I get the consistency argument but at the same don't see why ⚙️ relates to expanding a section (that's more like, "configure something"). I think expandable sections already look consistent once rendered (having the cursor icon to the right) so I could vote go for 3. replace gears for different emojis (maybe at the end of the sentence?). Up to you though

> (4) Would make me v. happy to remove all of them.

We could discuss, please open an issue ⚔️

Author: removed extra emojis!

</details>

This should be a good time to commit the changes with Git. These include
`.gitignore`, `dvc.lock`, and `dvc.yaml` — which describe our pipeline.

## Reproduce

> The whole point of creating this `dvc.yaml` file is the ability to easily

Reviewer: Actually the term "pipelines file" is a thing: https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files

Author: not really obvious (similar to "params file"). If these are terms they should be markedup in some way (italicise, underline, etc) so that it doesn't look like grammatically incorrect usage.

Reviewer: Whata bout italics for now? *pipelines file*

I'm not sure it's grammatically incorrect (file with pipelines) but it does sounds strange.

Author: - it's not incorrect, it just sounds incorrect. Yes, it's a problem which probably has to be sorted out in all the docs. I'd vote hyphen (since that's the usual thing to do with compound terms) but italics etc is fine
- for this particular sentence though, let's not repeat the word multiple times. "Pipeline" already appears at the end of the sentence.

Reviewer: I like the hyphenation idea, want to open an issue to confirm and apply globally?

> let's not repeat the word multiple times

I see, OK. Would be nice to have the term somewhere in this page though.

</details>

This should be a good time to commit the changes with Git. These include
`.gitignore`, `dvc.lock`, and `dvc.yaml` — which describe our pipeline.

## Reproduce

The whole point of creating this `dvc.yaml` file is the ability to easily

> reproduce a pipeline:

Reviewer: "reproduce its pipeline"? "the pipeline it defines"?

```dvc
$ dvc repro
```

<details>

### ⚙️ Expand to have some fun with it 💃

Let's try to play a little bit with it. First, let's try to change one of the
parameters for the training stage:

- Open `params.yaml` and change `n_est` to `100`, and

> - (re)run `dvc repro`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure splitting a sentence into 2 bullets is readable. Maybe just make it a normal sentence as part of the previous paragraph? Along with "you should see" below, as well

> We actually have some guidelines on bullet lists BTW (please see https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/contributing/docs if you haven't).

Author: I think it makes it much more readable in this case, clearly splitting into 2 steps without the odd insistence on `vim`.

btw I just read https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/contributing/docs (only read up to dev env before)... it's comically self-conflicted and also occasionally manages to be wrong from both US & UK perspectives. May have to fix it at some point.

I can find about 5 things wrong with the docs bullet point on, well, bullet points; but don't see anything adverse to this change.

Reviewer: Yes, def. better than `vim`. Just not sure about the syntax (a sentence / bullet list cross-breed).

> splitting into 2 steps

Maybe just change bullets to numbers?

Reviewer: > I can find about 5 things wrong with the docs bullet point
it's comically self-conflicted and also occasionally manages to be wrong from both US & UK perspectives. May have to fix it

Yes, please propose something.

Author: > Maybe just change bullets to numbers?

done

Stage 'featurize' didn't change, skipping
```

As before, there was no need to rerun `prepare`, `featurize`, etc. But this time
it also doesn't rerun `train`! The previous run with the same set of inputs
(parameters & data) was saved in DVC's <abbr>run-cache</abbr>, and reused here.

</details>

<details>

### 💡 Expand to see what happens under the hood.

> `dvc repro` relies on the <abbr>DAG</abbr> definition which it reads from
> `dvc.yaml`, and uses `dvc.lock` to determine what exactly needs to be run.

Reviewer: Actually...

```suggestion
`dvc repro` relies on the <abbr>DAG</abbr> definition that is read from
`dvc.yaml`, and uses `dvc.lock` to determine what exactly needs to be run.
```

> Meanwhile, the `dvc.lock` file is similar to a `.dvc` file — it captures hashes
> (in most cases `md5`s) of the dependencies and values of the parameters which
> were used. It can be considered a _state_ of the pipeline:

Reviewer: Just removing "Meanwhile" since `dvc.lock` was already mentioned in the last p. Also, this that was needed I think (same reasons for few other instanced I rolled back).
```suggestion
The `dvc.lock` file is similar to a `.dvc` file — it captures hashes (in most
cases `md5`s) of the dependencies and values of the parameters that were used.
It can be considered a _state_ of the pipeline:
```

Stage 'featurize' didn't change, skipping
```

This is the same result as before (no need to rerun `prepare`, `featurize`,

> etc.) but it also doesn't run `train` again this time either! DVC maintains a

Reviewer: Good rephrase, thanks. But "also doesn't run `train` again this time either" is still kind of unreadable.

Author: "again/this time/either" technically repeats sentiment thrice but it seems to be the important message the paragraph was trying to drive home and may be easy to miss sans emphasis...

How about "... before. No need to rerun `prepare`, `featurize`, etc. but also -- once again -- no need to rerun `train`"

Reviewer: Yeah I guess "this is **not** the same result as before" then. Simplification:
```suggestion
Like before, there's no need to rerun `prepare`, `featurize`,
etc. But it doesn't run `train` this time either! DVC maintains a
```

Author: changed

> etc.) but it also doesn't run `train` again this time either! DVC maintains a
> <abbr>run-cache</abbr> where it saved the previous run with the same set of
> inputs (parameters + data) for later reuse.

Reviewer: How about
```suggestion
etc.) but it also doesn't run `train` again this time either! The previous run
with the same set of inputs (parameters + data) was saved in DVC's
<abbr>run-cache</abbr>, and reused here.
```

Author: I feel the point here is to explain/sell DVC in general so it makes more sense to keep DVC as the subject of the sentence.

Reviewer: Use Cases are more for selling. Get Started is mainly for learning. I expect people who are "already sold" read it through.

Author: changed

DVC pipelines (`dvc.yaml` file, `dvc run`, and `dvc repro` commands) solve a few
important problems:

- _Automation_: run a sequence of steps in a "smart" way which makes iterating
  on your project faster. DVC automatically determines which parts of a project
  need to be run, and it caches "runs" and their results (in the aptly-named

>   <abbr>run-cache</abbr>) to avoid unnecessary reruns.

Reviewer: Good intent but TMI prob. and complicates the reading. It's an intro doc, no need to specifically mention the run-cache out here (it's OK in the hidden section above tho 👍).

Author: ```suggestion
  need to be run, and it caches "runs" and their results to avoid unnecessary reruns.
```

- _Reproducibility_: `dvc.yaml` and `dvc.lock` files describe what data to use
  and which commands will generate the pipeline results (such as an ML model).
  Storing these files in Git makes it easy to version and share.
- _Continuous Delivery and Continuous Integration (CI/CD) for ML_: describing

>   projects in way which it can be reproduced (built) is the first necessary step

Reviewer: Should be "in a way that can be" I think. It had some typo before but it's a very restrictive clause. I just don't see how "which" works here even when I really want to let this go. It would require that "describing projects in a way" was a complete thought.

Author: didn't read this carefully. Should definitely remove "it" and make it simply "that."

  before introducing CI/CD systems. See our sister project
  [CML](https://cml.dev/) for some examples.

## Visualize

Having built our pipeline, we need a good way to understand its structure.
Seeing a graph of connected stages would help. DVC lets you do just that without

> leaving the terminal!

Reviewer: Is "do just that without" readable without comma? Maybe without "just"

Author: No essentially another comma splice. Pauses when speaking do not have to appear when reading. Could use ellipsis instead of comma here to force a pause if you want.

Reviewer: > Pauses when speaking do not have to appear when reading.

We may overuse them a little 🙂 But in this case it seems useful. The problem for me here is "do just that without". So maybe "do so without"?

Author: done
